LW7 Day 5: dbdev blog post (#13688)
supabase/supabase: apps/www/_blog/2023-04-14-dbdev.mdx

---

Today we’re publicly previewing [**`database.dev`**](https://database.dev), a PostgreSQL package manager. At this stage the package registry is read-only. We've preloaded it with a handful of packages, or pglets (PostGres appLETs), to showcase some of the more interesting possibilities. 

![dbdev-landing.png](/images/blog/launch-week-7/day-5-one-more-thing/dbdev-landing.png)

`dbdev` fills the same role for PostgreSQL as `npm` for JavaScript, `pip` for Python and `cargo` for Rust in that it enables publishing libraries and applications for repeatable deployment. We'll be releasing the tooling necessary for third-parties to publish `pglets` to the registry once we’ve collected some community feedback and incorporate any great new ideas. Our goal is to create an [open ecosystem](https://github.com/supabase/dbdev) for packaging and discovering SQL.

The initial preview is compatible with [new projects](https://database.new) on the Supabase platform. It can also be installed on any PostgreSQL instance that support [`pg_tle`](https://github.com/aws/pg_tle) and [`pgsql-http`](https://github.com/pramsey/pgsql-http).

## **Get Started with dbdev**

> The easiest way to get started is to install a package using the in-database client. You can setup the installer by executing the SQL snippet available at [database.dev/installer](https://database.dev/installer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The in-database client is the easiest way to get started. You can setup the installer by executing the SQL snippet available at [database.dev/installer](https://database.dev/installer).
```

With our extension installed, you can use it like any other PostgreSQL extension. Continuing with the [`olirice-asciiplot`](https://database.dev/olirice/asciiplot) example, we can call the `scatter` function it provides to create an ASCII scatterplot:

```sql
select
  scatter(
    val::numeric, -- x
    val::numeric, -- y 
    'stonks!',    -- title
    15,           -- height
    50            -- width
  )
from
  generate_series(1,10) z(val);
/*
                    stonks!
----------------------------------------------
|                                       *
|                                        
|                                  *    
|                              *         
|                                        
|                          *             
|                                        
|                     *                  
|                 *                      
|                                        
|            *                           
|                                        
|        *                               
|   *
*/
```

> PostgreSQL's extension tooling is excellent, but it predates some practices learned from best-in-class package indexes like crates.io. We opted to layer additional strictness on top of what PostgreSQL imposes to give developers a more modern development experience at the expense of introducing a few opinions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostgreSQL's extension tooling is excellent, but it predates some practices learned from best-in-class package indexes like crates.io. At the expense of introducing a few opinions, we opted to layer additional strictness on top of what PostgreSQL imposes to give developers a more modern development experience:
```

```jsx
import { OpenAIEmbeddings } from "langchain/embeddings/openai";
import { createClient } from "@supabase/supabase-js";
import { SupabaseHybridSearch } from "langchain/retrievers/supabase";

const privateKey = process.env.SUPABASE_PRIVATE_KEY;
if (!privateKey) throw new Error(`Expected env var SUPABASE_PRIVATE_KEY`);

const url = process.env.SUPABASE_URL;
if (!url) throw new Error(`Expected env var SUPABASE_URL`);

export const run = async () => {
  const client = createClient(url, privateKey);

  const embeddings = new OpenAIEmbeddings();

  const retriever = new SupabaseHybridSearch(embeddings, {
    client,
    //  Below are the defaults, expecting that you set up your supabase table and functions according to the guide above. Please change if necessary.
    similarityK: 2,
    keywordK: 2,
    tableName: "documents",
    similarityQueryName: "match_documents",
    keywordQueryName: "kw_match_documents",
  });

  const results = await retriever.getRelevantDocuments("hello bye");

  console.log(results);
};
```

## Package Highlights

> Thats it for the [`dbdev`](http://database.new) announcement, but a package index is less interesting than what you can do with it! In that vein, the following highlights a few of packages I thought were interesting enough to callout:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's it for the [`dbdev`](http://database.new) announcement, but a package index is less interesting than what you can do with it! In that vein, the following highlights a few of packages I thought were interesting enough to callout:
```

### burggraf-pg_headerkit

[`burggraf-pg_headerkit`](https://database.dev/burggraf/pg_headerkit) is a toolkit for adding advanced features to PostgREST APIs (including Supabase REST):

- rate limiting
- IP allowlisting/denylisting
- request logging

and more.

For example, you could apply a deny listing to your API using `hdr.in_deny_list()` in a row level security policy or view:

```sql
select
	*
from
	app.memos
where
	not hdr.in_deny_list();
```

### olirice-index_advisor

> [`olirice-index_advisor`](https://database.dev/burggraf/pg_headerkit) is one of the projects we cut from [Launch Week 7](https://supabase.com/launch-week). It is simple tool that takes a query and recommends indexes to minimize the “total_cost” according to the query’s [explain plan](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/using-explain.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`olirice-index_advisor`](https://database.dev/olirice/index_advisor) is one of the projects we cut from [Launch Week 7](/launch-week). It is simple tool that takes a query and recommends indexes to minimize the “total_cost” according to the query’s [explain plan](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/using-explain.html).
```

Keep an eye open for it in Launch Week 8.

### michelp-adminpack

[`michelp-adminpack`](https://database.dev/michelp/adminpack) is a collection of tools helpful for administrating your database that we often use internally at Supabase. It holds views for reviewing useful info for debugging and optimizing performance like duplicate indexes, index usage, and table size, to name a few.

For example, to identify potentially unused indexes that can be dropped, you could use the `index_usage` view, which has columns for:

|     Column      |  Type  |
|-----------------|--------|
| schemaname      | name   |
| tablename       | name   |
| num_rows        | bigint |
| table_size      | text   |
| index_name      | name   |
| index_size      | text   |
| unique          | text   |
| number_of_scans | bigint |
| tuples_read     | bigint |
| tuples_fetched  | bigint | 

## Limitations

> There are several procedural languages (PL) that can be embedded in PostgreSQL and used to define functions. The ones that ship with stock PostgreSQL are `SQL`, and `pl/pgSQL` but there others that can be installed separately, including `pl/v8` for JavaScript, or `pl/perl` for Perl. A **trusted** language has been restricted to remove potentially hazardous functionality like access to the network stack and file system. `pl/v8` and `pl/perl` are examples of trusted languages. In contrast, `pl/python3u` is **untrusted**.

Reviewer: should we add pl/rust now that it's 1.0?

Reviewer: ah - I see you wrote this below

> A [Trusted Language Extension (TLE)](https://github.com/aws/pg_tle) is a [PostgreSQL extension](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/extend-extensions.html), written exclusively using trusted languages. In some ways that make them less flexible than classic extensions, which can have C language components (more on that in a second). The advantage to TLEs is that they do not require direct access to the PostgreSQL server’s file system to install. That enables TLEs to be installed by end-users rather than by database administrators or hosting providers. TLEs are the enabling technology that allows a package manager like `dbdev` to function on hosted PostgreSQL platforms like Supabase. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [Trusted Language Extension (TLE)](https://github.com/aws/pg_tle) is a [PostgreSQL extension](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/extend-extensions.html), written exclusively using trusted languages. In some ways that makes them less flexible than classic extensions, which can have C language components (more on that in a second). The advantage to TLEs is that they don't require direct access to the PostgreSQL server’s file system to install. That enables TLEs to be installed by end-users rather than by database administrators or hosting providers. TLEs are the enabling technology that allows a package manager like `dbdev` to function on hosted PostgreSQL platforms like Supabase. 
```
